Hi and welcome come back.
This video we're looking at advanced dictionary usage.
And if that sounds scary.
Don't be scanned at all.
The only thing that we're concerned about in this video is what happens when a dictionary is not enough
.
What happens when we're going to store more data.
For example let's assume that this dictionary here represents and I'm going to use Shift f six different
functions in ASCII to represent each student.
So let's assume that and then I'm going to just make sure that this is indented properly that make sure
that everything is on the same line.
So let's assume this dictionary represents a student and normally students do not have a single mark
as OJT with them.
They might have 10 different marks that they've achieved in a different course works on exams and things
like that.
So naturally a single value isn't very good.
And then you might be tempted to say OK if a single value is not good then let's do this.
Martu and then Avie and then Mark 3 and then 50 and so on.
However the problem with this approach.
There are two problems.
One is a slightly minor problem.
I wouldn't say really minor but slightly less important than the other.
The first problem is slightly less important problem is that this is quite messy.
If you have 50 marks then you have to type a lot of things and a lot of keys and that makes your dictionary
really big.
So that's not very good.
The other issue is how do you calculate an average.
If you have an unknown number of keys and each one with a number but some of them with a name for example
.
And the answer is really difficult.
You don't know what your keys are called.
They might be called Mark Mark to mark three but you don't know where it ends.
So this is not the best approach.
Let's not do that.
And the solution is to use the list as we've seen before.
Take a wild guess as to how we could make sure that this student has not only one mark associated with
them but rather a list of marks.
For example five different marks.
Suppose the video and try that see if you can make it work and if you're using pi charm if it's going
to fail it will give you a red line under it saying this is not good.
So give it up give it a quick pause and try to make sure that this student has five marks associated
with them all inside the same key.
Now that we've got that the solution to the problem is to just do what would be logical and substitute
the 70 for a list that we've seen before.
And there we go asked you to now has five marks associated with him.
The small problem is now what if we want to access the first one as opposed to all of them because if
we do print shoot and mark what we get is what you'd expect.
We get the list back.
So how would we access the 70.
How would we print 70 out.
I would recommend giving that a goat seeing if you can print the 70 out reasonably easily.
An approach might be to create a variable to hold the list and then access that specific element of
the list.
So try that number we've done that.
Let's go over the two approaches that you might want to take for this the first approach.
Very simple.
We know when we print the student Mark out we get a list.
Therefore student and mark inside it this thing is this set of canisters represents or is replaced by
this list here.
That's what that means.
That's what we're getting at when we get the mark of this student.
We get that list therefore if we wanted to access the first element we would just put 0 and we were
accessing the zeroth element of the list.
And the fact that there are multiple square brackets one after the other is not a problem.
This is the list.
And then when accessing element number 0.
So by the time the we're accessing element number 0 this is no longer student Mark.
This is now the list here.
And these may be clearer if instead of that we say Marks equals shouldn't mark and then in here we can
print marks to zero.
Now there's no square brackets one after another.
However you have to create a another variable which is just a bit slower just slightly less optimal
if you wish.
So maybe doing that is the best way.
And that is how you would access the first element
not only lists but we can also put dictionaries in.
So a key may be associated with another dictionary and I'm going to add here another key which is going
to be exams and that is going to be a dictionary.
And now we've got final and he got 70 in the final midterm.
That was the 50 and so on.
If you want.
So we've got the marks here which should now be marks.
By the way because this is a list but you can also put more detail in if you want and you can do that
you can associate a dictionary to one of the keys and then you can do that again and so on and so on
.
So the question now is how would you get this 70.
How would you get the final exam mark out through here so give that a go.
I'm sure you can do it.
It's essentially the same thing.
But remember that instead of a list we are now accessing a dictionary that is inside a key.
Go for that.
Post the video real quick and do that and then we'll come back to it.
Now that we've got that the solution as I'm sure you got it is just to do exactly the same as with the
list but instead of the index put the key that we want to access and remember to substitute marks for
exams and then we can do that and we get 70 out which is what we wanted.
This is advanced usage of dictionaries because it involves putting lists inside dictionaries and dictionaries
inside dictionaries and accessing them.
And notice how you can do this more and more.
You can have many nested ones but as you may guess that gets quite messy and quite difficult to read
.
So it's never recommended that you have more than two if you have three or four or five that's getting
quite cumbersome quite difficult to process for you as a person not for the computer.
The computer can deal with it for you as a person it becomes difficult to read and then for you to try
to avoid that whenever possible.
OK.
So that's it for this video.
We've looked at advanced dictionary usage and we're going to move on now onto the next one.
See you there.